docs: add v8.0 Performance FAQ (#12597)
GoogleChrome/lighthouse: docs/v8-perf-faq.md

# v8.0 Performance FAQ

### Give me a summary of the perf score changes in v8.0. What's new/different?

First, it may be useful to refresh on [the math behind Lighthouse's metric
scores and performance score.](https://web.dev/performance-scoring/)

In Lighthouse v8.0, we updated the score curves for FCP and TBT measurements,
making both a bit more strict. CLS has been updated to its new, [windowed
definition](https://web.dev/evolving-cls/). Additionally, the Performance
Score's weighted average was
[rebalanced](https://googlechrome.github.io/lighthouse/scorecalc/#FCP=3000&SI=5800&FMP=4000&TTI=7300&FCI=6500&LCP=4000&TBT=600&CLS=0.25&device=mobile&version=8&version=6&version=5),
giving more weight to CLS and TBT than before, and slightly decreasing the

> weighting of FCP, SI, and TTI.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
weights of FCP, SI, and TTI.
```

From an analysis of HTTP Archive's latest [crawl of the
web](https://httparchive.org/faq#how-does-the-http-archive-decide-which-urls-to-test),
we project that the performance score for the majority of sites will stay the
same or improve in Lighthouse 8.0.
- ~20% of sites may see a drop of up to 5 points, though likely less
- ~20% of sites will see little detectable change
- ~30% of sites should see a moderate improvement of a few points
- ~30% could see a significant improvement of 5 points or more

The biggest drops in scores are due to TBT scoring becoming stricter and the
metric's slightly higher weight. The biggest improvements in scores are also due
to TBT changes in the long tail and the windowing of CLS, and both metrics'
higher weights.

> ### What are the exact score weighting changes?

Author: attempted something. added some italics on all the phases.  i can also try splitting the table out.

> ### What are the exact score weighting changes?

Reviewer: > attempted something. added some italics on all the phases. i can also try splitting the table out.

ah, looks great split like that. Sorry to send you down this rabbit hole. Github really just needs to add one or two more table styling options

| mid            | Speed Index (SI)               | 40              | 15        | **10**        | 35              | -5       | -5      |
|                | Largest Contentful Paint (LCP) |                 | 25        | **25**        |                 | 0        |         |
| interactivity  | Time To Interactive (TTI)      | 40              | 15        | **10**        | 40              | -5       | 0       |
|                | Total Blocking Time (TBT)      |                 | 25        | **30**        |                 | 5        |         |
| predictability | Cumulative Layout Shift (CLS)  | 5               | 5         | **15**        | 15              | 10       | 10      |

### Why did the weight of CLS go up?

When introduced in Lighthouse v6, it was still early days for the metric.
There've been [many improvements and
bugfixes](https://chromium.googlesource.com/chromium/src/+/refs/heads/main/docs/speed/metrics_changelog/cls.md)
to the CLS metric. Now, given its maturity and its established placement in Core
Web Vitals, the weight increases from 5% to 15%.

> ### Why aren't the weights for the Core Web Vitals metrics the same in the updated performance score?

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Why are the Core Web Vitals metrics weighted differently?
```

seems I commented in the doc too late for this, but WDYT :)

The Core Web Vitals metrics are [independent signals in the Page Experience
ranking
update](https://support.google.com/webmasters/thread/104436075/core-web-vitals-page-experience-faqs-updated-march-2021).
Lighthouse weighs each lab equivalent metric based on what we believe creates
the best incentives to improve overall page experience for users.

LCP, CLS, and TBT are [very good
metrics](https://chromium.googlesource.com/chromium/src/+/lkgr/docs/speed/good_toplevel_metrics.md)
and that's why they are the three highest-weighted metrics in the performance
score.

> ### How should I think about the Lighthouse performance score in relation to Core Web Vitals?

Reviewer 2: bump on my offer :)

will likely not have much effect for the lab measurement, but instead will have
a large effect on the field CLS for long-lived pages.

Lighthouse 8 introduces another adjustment to our CLS definition: including
layout shift contributions from subframes. This brings our implementation in
line with how CrUX computes field CLS. This comes with the implication that
iframes (including ones you may not control) may be adding layout shifts which
ultimately affect your CLS score. Keep in mind that the subframe contributions
are [weighted by the in-viewport
portion](https://github.com/WICG/layout-instability#cumulative-scores) of the
iframe.

### Why don't the numbers for TBT and FID match, if TBT is a proxy metric for FID?

The commonality between TBT (collected in a lab environment) and FID (collected
in a field context) is that they measure the impact on input responsiveness from
long tasks on the main thread. Beyond that, they're quite different. FID
captures the delay in handling the first input event of the page, whenever that
input happened.  TBT roughly captures how dangerous the length of all the main
thread's tasks are.

> It's very possible to have a page that does well on FID, but bad on TBT.  And

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It's very possible to have a page that does well on FID, but badly on TBT.  And
```
or "poorly"

Reviewer 2: +1 to poorly

> it's slightly harder, but possible, to do well on TBT but bad on FID.   So, you

Reviewer: ```suggestion
it's slightly harder, but possible, to do well on TBT but badly on FID. So, you
```

shouldn't expect your TBT and FID measurements to correlate strongly. A
large-scale analysis found their [Spearman's
ρ](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Spearman%27s_rank_correlation_coefficient) at
about 0.40, which indicates a connection, but not one as strong as many would
prefer.

From the Lighthouse project's perspective, the current passing threshold for FID
is quite lenient but more importantly, the percentile-of-record for FID (75th

> percentile) is not indicative of issues and the 95th percentile is a much

Reviewer: ```suggestion
percentile) is not indicative of issues. The 95th percentile is a much
```

stronger indicator of problematic interactions for this metric. We encourage
user-centric teams to focus on the 95th percentile of all input delays (not just
the first) in their field data in order to identify and address problems that

> surface just 10% of the time.

Reviewer: > surface just 10% of the time.

wait, 10% or 5%?

> Aside: The [Chrome 91 FID change for

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Aside: the [Chrome 91 FID change for
```

double-tap-to-zoom](https://chromium.googlesource.com/chromium/src.git/+/refs/heads/main/docs/speed/metrics_changelog/2021_05_fid.md)
may be observable in your field metrics, with higher percentiles improving
slightly.

### Overall, what motivated the changes to the performance score?

> As it is anytime the Lighthouse score is updated, changes are made to reflect

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As with all Lighthouse score updates, changes are made to reflect
```
maybe

> the latest in how to measure user experience quality holistically, accurately,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the latest in how to measure user-experience quality holistically and accurately,
```

and to focus attention on key priorities.

Heavy JS and long tasks are a problem for the web that's
[worsening](https://httparchive.org/reports/state-of-javascript#bytesJs). Field
FID is currently too lenient and not sufficiently incentivizing action to
address the problem. Lighthouse has historically weighed its interactivity

> metrics at 40-55% of the performance score and as interactivity is key to user

Reviewer: ```suggestion
metrics at 40-55% of the performance score and, as interactivity is key to user
```

(or go em dash: "of the performance score and—as interactivity is key to user experience—we maintain a...")

experience, we maintain a 40% weighting (TBT and TTI together) in Lighthouse
8.0.

[FCP's score curve was
adjusted](https://github.com/GoogleChrome/lighthouse/pull/12556) to align with

> the current defacto threshold of good, and as a result will score a bit more

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the current de facto "good" threshold, and as a result will score a bit more
```

Reviewer: https://github.com/GoogleChrome/web.dev/pull/5504 will be adding scoring info to the web.dev article we can link to

strictly.

> The curve for TBT was made more strict to [more closely

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The curve for TBT was made stricter to [more closely
```

approach](https://github.com/GoogleChrome/lighthouse/pull/12576) the ideal score
curve. TBT has had (and still has) a more lenient curve than our methodology

> dictates. The new curve is also more linear which means there's a larger range

Reviewer: ```suggestion
dictates, but the new curve is more linear which means there's a larger range
```

where improvements in the metric are rewarded with improvements in the score. If
your page currently scores poorly with TBT, the new curve will be more
responsive to changes as page performance incrementally improves.

> FCP drops slightly from 15% to 10%, as it's fairly gameable and also partly

Reviewer: ```suggestion
FCP's weight drops slightly from 15% to 10% because it's fairly gameable and is also partly
```

captured by Speed Index.

### What's the story with TTI?

> TTI serves a useful role as it's the largest metric value reported (often &gt;10

Reviewer: ```suggestion
TTI serves a useful role as it's the longest metric value reported (often &gt;10
```
maybe?

Author: feels weird as longest. but also weird as largest. ohwell

seconds) and helps anchor perceptions.

We see TBT as a stronger metric for evaluating the health of your main thread

> and impact on interactivity, plus it [has lower

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and its impact on interactivity, plus it [has lower
```

variability](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1xCERB_X7PiP5RAZDwyIkODnIXoBk-Oo7Mi9266aEdGg/edit).
 TTI serves as a nice complement that captures the cost of long tasks, often

> from heavy JavaScript. That said, we expect to continue to reduce the weighting

Reviewer: ```suggestion
from heavy JavaScript. That said, we expect to continue to reduce the weight
```

> of TTI and likely remove it in future major Lighthouse versions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
of TTI and will likely remove it in a future major Lighthouse release.
```
